# Covid-AI-Assistant
The outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has been declared a public health emergency of international concern. Epidemic studies have been well described clinical features of patients with COVID-19. The abrupt rise in the Coronavirus cases after breakout in China in the month of January, there has been a shortage of rapid and highly sensitive reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing kits for the diagnosis of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Therefore, there is a crucial need of tools to assist the community investigating the diagnosis of patients with COVID-19 using Articial Intelligence. We are planing to use available public data to develop an application to initially process data in a meaningful way and create a useful knowledge that can be exploited afterwards to make prediction on patient clinical outcome. Also, the scarcity of COVID dataset is handled by using various spatial transform augmentation techniques, the X-Ray and CT images are preprocessed to improve quality of image. Our application is a web as well as android application used to detect COVID-19 from either chest X-ray images or chest CT images. Our application can be used to increase productivity for Health Professionals by automaticaaly detecting Covid-19 infection using fast and reliable AI screening, reduce time and cost for the patients and provide assistance to overcome the problem of a lack of specialized physicians in remote villages. By using our application, the user will be able to detect AI prediction with confidence scores after uploading the Chest X-ray or CT image. The prediction results for Chest X-Ray could be across three possibilities: Normal, Pneumonia or COVID-19. Whereas, the prediction results for Chest CT could be across 2 possibilities: Covid or Non-Covid. Furthermore, Activation Map of Chest X-Ray can be viewed by the user for observing important features reflecting the portion of chest affected by the Virus. We applied a high-quality Deep Convolutional Neural Network model in our web application with an overall accuracy of 96%, COVID-19 sensitivity of 96% and COVID-19 positive prediction value (PPV) of 96% on test dataset of X-Rays which is evaluated as state of the art performance and far better than other existing AI models proposed over the recent months for Covid-19 image classification.
